>> Josh Long: Okay.
And then finally,
as we kind of wind down this section here,
the last thing I want to talk
to you about is configuration.
I've been making changes to this
program using application properties.
Yeah, I can change things like
the port on which this runs.
Like I can do 8081.
Or if I want it to run on random port,
I can choose zero, right?
It'll just pick a random unused
port on the operating system.
That's an environment
variable that could be.
I'm sorry, that's a property file,
a property value.
If I go to the command line and
I do /maven spring-boot:run.
Actually here,
let me just do maven package.
So I'll have a compiled jar, okay?
Now I go to the target directory.
Du -ds is, there's a jar here, right?
I can do Java minus jar Java.
Actually, can I do this one?
I think I can.
No, java- jar, that, okay?
That's the application up and
running on which port its random port.
But now let's say I wanna override that.
Well, I can say --, or sorry,
Dserver.port=8082, okay?
So now you can see it
started up on port 8082.
I can also do environment variables.
I can say serverport equals 8083 and
we can keep that one there and
we'll see there's 8082 and
environment variable.
Get rid of this run that.
I can see it's on Port 8083.
So every property that you see me put
in here can be made into an environment
variable.
So when I specify spring data source,
secret or
password, obviously you're not
going to do that in production.
You're not going to check in the source
code to your production Oracle database or
whatever into your source code.
What you do is you'd
say SPRING_DATASOURCE.
At the very least, you do this, right?
DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=foo, right?
And then run the process, okay?
So you can pass in configurate, you can
override the default configuration.
This is the 12 factor app
style deployments, right?
You don't have configuration that changes
from one environment to another in
the build itself.
It should be externalizable.
And finally, I would definitely
recommend using something like.
Do you use a dir env?
Anybody here use something like dir env?
Direnv is another really handy tool for
configuration, right?
So let me see, if I do this here.
If I create a file in the root of this
folder, touch _envrc, right, okay.
I'm going to open this up now,
echo hello frontendmasters.
Now I'm going to do DRM allow.
So if I go back to here and I go to demo,
it says hello friend and masters.
I can even export environment variables.
So export foo equals bar.
So now I go back up echo foo,
nothing CD into this and
it's asking me do I want to run this
file because it's new drmvalao.
Great.
Now what is foo?
If I echo foo.
So why does that matter?
Well, it means you can put environment
variables in this directory.
Somebody cd's into this directory,
now they have the correct version of
Java because you have SDK main rc.
You can also have the correct
environment variables, right?
Now, should you put your AWS S3
cluster credentials in this?
Definitely not, right?
Which brings us back
around to one more thing.
Use your password manager.
Most of them have clis.
I don't know what your organization uses,
but
what I find to be very effective is to
have like if you're using one pass or
LastPass or I use bitwarden, which I love,
you can use whatever you want.
The point is they all have clis,
even Apple, there's a third party.
I'm not sure how good it is, don't quote
me, but there's an Apple passwords CLI now
that somebody else built that you can
use to talk to the password manager.
That's new in Mac OS 15.4 or
whatever it was.
And so you can use that to, given
the name of a key, pull down the value so
it'll prompt you to
authenticate in the shell.
You log into your password manager,
in effect in the console, and then you can
actually use the token that it gives you
back to make requests against the API for
the password manager.
So what would you put in here?
Well, imagine somebody
CDs into this directory.
Now you have environment variables
that are in session or in scope, but
you need to get certain items.
So the way it works in
Bitwarden is use BW getitem and
then the name of the item
it'll ask you to authenticate.
So you authenticate,
then it'll get the item and
then foo will be equal to that value.
So now, as long as everybody's using
1Password or Bitwarden or whatever,
cuz I showed you Docker, right?
Docker is great for
things you can run locally.
But S3, you've got a development S3
cluster or development S3 bucket,
I mean, or buckets, right?
You don't want to store that in the source
code, so you store that in the Password
manager for your group and
then each of you has access.
You can share that secret with everybody.
The admin or the team leader,
whatever can do that.
Now, when they CD into this directory,
DRMV runs and
it automatically tries to set
up these environment variables
that has the S3 credential for
you by talking to the password manager.
Now in this shell,
that is when you run idea pom.xml, right?
Because now, so if I close this out,
I command qt intellij, right?
It's gone, there's no room intellij now.
So now I'm going to go to demo DRM allow.
Okay, so
now it's asking me to get an item.
It's going to fail because I don't have a.
I didn't ask it to get anything.
But echo foo is still there, right?
Whoops, I forgot to set this
back to something usable.
Bar CD demo.
There you go.
Echo foo And I open this up again,
Pom xml and I'm opening it
up in the same shell where I
set that environment variable.
So now in my Java code,
what if I need to depend on that value?
Well, I can inject it.
I can get access to that value like so,
right, foo.
Okay, so now I restart this.
I've injected the environment
variable there.
Go to the console.
Hi, what did I call it?
I did call it hi, right?
It's port 8083.
Right.
We changed that.
What's the port?
It's random.
That's zero by default.
Okay, so there you go.
You can see I was able to access and
reference those environment variables
from within my spring boot application.
You can also reference them
from within this property file.
So for example, maybe the secret,
maybe the password for
your database is whatever is in
the environment variable called foo.
You can just reference it like that.
So far, so good.
So this is all stuff, there's no reason
anybody should ever store credentials
in source code unless it's like SQLite
on the local machine shared by nobody.